All right, great.
Now I wanna talk about overloading
methods that we've inherited.
So we talked about overloading before.
As a refresher,
overloading is where you have multiple
methods within the same class
that have the same name,
but different parameter lists, right?
Okay, so now that we're talking about
inhebitance, our scope has grown.
So you can have overloaded methods
that are not in the same class,
but are between a parent class and
a superclass.
So say, for example,
if I'm a subclass, and I've inherited
a method from my superclass, and
I want to overload that method.
Then that means my superclass
has a method named x, and I,
the subclass, have a method name x, right?
I can overload that,
I would need to do a different signature.
Otherwise, there would be a conflict, or
I would be overriding the one
that's from my parent, okay?
So let's go ahead and
update the Rectangle and
Square classes to demonstrate
how we might overload a method.
>> So it's an override if you're
just changing the parameters or
changing one specific thing?
It's an overload if you're
changing the signature altogether?
>> No, override, if you keep
the signature exactly the same,
even the parameters, and you're only
changing the body of the method.
And then overload is when you change the
signature, you have a totally new method.
It has the same name, but
the signature list is different,
and hopefully the body
is different as well.
Okay, so we're gonna create
a print method in a superclass,
we'll overload that in the subclass.
So let's go to Square.
And in Square, we will,
Add a print method.
So we have this override, but
now we're gonna do an overload.
So we'll say public void print, and,
This one will take a string.
I'm sorry, I wanna start with
the Rectangle, since that's the parent.
All right, so let's go ahead and
make a print in Rectangle first.
This one won't take any arguments, and
we'll just print out, I am a rectangle.
And then in the subclass Square,
we'll also have a print method.
So this one will take a string.
So we have a method in the super
called print, takes no arguments.
We have a method in the subclass that's
called print, it takes a string.
So that's how you've overloaded those.
And we'll go ahead and
just print out, I am a, and
then whatever it is that they passed in.
Okay, after you type this,
we'll go ahead and
look in inheritance tester and
test it out.
Ready, okay, in inheritance,
we are going to create a Rectangle,
let's say Rectangle,
And we'll say rectangle.print.
So notice I only have one print method
available on the Rectangle object,
because that is the superclass, yes?
And then if I were to say square.print,
notice I have two print methods here.
The one that I inherited from
my parent that takes nothing,
and the one that I've explicitly
defined myself that takes a string.
So we'll call this one,
and we'll say square.
Okay, and let's go ahead and print out,
we'll print the Rectangle one first.
So yep, shows that I'm a rectangle, and
then the square one, sorry,
shows that I am a square.
>> So
the constructor always needs to be public?
>> Good question, so
the constructor needs to be accessible,
so it doesn't have to be public per se.
But if it's a class that's within the same
package that's inherited from it,
then it needs to have access, so
it could be public or protected.
If it were private, then the inherited
class would not be able to see it,
and therefore wouldn't be able to call it.
So if you think about the purpose
of a constructor, again,
it's to set up some initial state for
an object.
So there's only certain
unique cases where it
even makes sense to have
a private constructor.
It's where you wanna maybe expose
a different constructor to
anyone who's using the class.
And then you call into your
private constructor yourself
to do additional setup or
something like that.
Any other questions on overloading?
>> So we're overloading methods that
happen to be on our parent class?
But there isn't anything
inherently different about this
overloading versus overloading
methods that were on the same class.
>> Right, very good, it's just
the scope is broader now, that's it.
Whereas before we would have had
the other print right here in
the same class that you can see.
So it's kinda invisible, but
it's still there in the scope.